Add progress to streaming download (#1268)
encode/httpx: docs/advanced.md

    ...
```

## Monitoring download progress

> If you need to monitor download progress, you can stream with using `response.last_raw_chunk_size` property.

Reviewer: (Nit) Copy improvement:

```suggestion
If you need to monitor download progress of large responses, you can use stream and the `response.last_raw_chunk_size` property.
```

> For example, you can build a nice progress bar using the `tqdm` library:

Reviewer: (Nit) Copy improvement.

(Super nit) Not sure we need the "nice" adjective so I replaced it with a more neutral phrasing below :)

```suggestion
For example, showing a progress bar using the [`tqdm`](https://github.com/tqdm/tqdm) library while a response is being downloaded could be done like this…
```

```python
import tempfile

import httpx
from tqdm import tqdm

with tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile() as download_file:
    data = b"@" * 1000000

>     with httpx.stream("POST", "https://httpbin.org/anything", data=data) as response:

Reviewer 2: I think the example given is a bit misleading, since it's the *download* that we're tracking the progress of here, not the upload. Perhaps just a GET of a largish file would be a little more clear?...

```python
url = "http://ipv4.download.thinkbroadband.com/100MB.zip"
with httpx.stream("GET", url) as response:
    ...
```

Author: Good point,

I changed the examples (but I used the test file from this page https://speed.hetzner.de/)

>         content_length = int(response.headers["Content-Length"])

Reviewer 2: I *guess* we ought to also cover the case where `Content-Length` isn't present.

Perhaps something like:

```python
if "Content-Length" in response.headers:
    total = int(response.headers["Content-Length"])
else:
    total = None
```

Author: I didn't think about that, but you are right

>         with tqdm(total=content_length) as progress:

Reviewer 2: I'm interested what arguments we need to display here to have tqdm display this using B, KB, MB, GB etc...

From https://github.com/tqdm/tqdm#extra-cli-options is sounds like the API might be this?...

```python
with tqdm(total=total, unit_scale=True, unit_divisor=1024, unit='B') as progress:
    ...
```

But it'd need testing to be sure.

Author: I checked this example, it looks fine, something like that:
```
100%|██████████████| 100M/100M [01:54<00:00, 918kB/s]
```

    ...
```

## Monitoring download progress

> If you need to monitor download progress of large responses, you can use stream and the `response.num_bytes_downloaded` property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to monitor download progress of large responses, you can use response streaming and inspect the `response.num_bytes_downloaded` property.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This interface is required for properly determining download progress, because the total number of bytes returned by `response.content` or `response.iter_content()` will not always correspond with the raw content length of the response if HTTP response compression is being used.

```

    ...
```

## Monitoring download progress

> If you need to monitor download progress of large responses, you can use stream and the `response.last_raw_chunk_size` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to monitor download progress of large responses, you can use stream and the `response.num_bytes_downloaded` property.
```

> If you need to monitor download progress of large responses, you can use stream and the `response.last_raw_chunk_size` property.

Reviewer 2: Needs updating 😀

For example, showing a progress bar using the [`tqdm`](https://github.com/tqdm/tqdm) library while a response is being downloaded could be done like this…

```python
import tempfile

import httpx
from tqdm import tqdm

with tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile() as download_file:
    url = "https://speed.hetzner.de/100MB.bin"
    with httpx.stream("GET", url) as response:

>         if "Content-Length" in response.headers:
>             total = int(response.headers["Content-Length"])
>         else:
>             total = None

Reviewer: I know about @tomchristie's comment here… https://github.com/encode/httpx/pull/1268#discussion_r485710581

But for this particular endpoint we know that we'll get a `Content-Length` in response, so should we simplify this to…?

```suggestion
        total = int(response.headers["Content-Length"])
```

I guess the motivation is to show a general-purpose example, but at the same time it's a bit confusing since _for any particular example_ there's only one branch we'll ever go through.

Author: I don't know.

On one hand it's good idea to show that `tqdm` accepts `total=None`. On other hand an extra `if` statement can mislead someone (moreover, it's the other library, not `httpx`).

I'd like to make an example easier, as you proposed.

@tomchristie , what do you think?

Reviewer 2: I'm happy with either...

Keeping it simple:

```python
total = int(response.headers["Content-Length"])
```

Or just being a little more careful...

```python
content_length = response.headers.get("Content-Length")
total = None if content_length is None else int(content_length)
```
